README.md, before:

# git-cheatsheet
A cheat sheet for common and repeatedly used commands in GIT version control system

### Adding an existing project to GitHub using the command line
See the complete guide here: [Adding an existing project to GitHub using the command line](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line/)


### Cloning a repository from GitHub using the command line
See the complete guide here: [Cloning a repository from GitHub using the command line](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository)


### Pull down all changes that have been made to a specific branch
```
git pull origin <branch_name>

// example
// first: move to your local branch "master"
git checkout master
// second: pull all changes from the "master" remote branch and merge it to the "master" local branch
git pull origin master
```


### Push local changes up to the remote repository
```
# push a specific branch
git push -u origin <branch_name>

# push all branches
git push -u origin --all
```


### Push local tags up to the remote repository
```
# push a specific tag
git push -u origin <tag_name>

# push all tags
git push -u origin --tags
```


### Create a tag
```
# create a tag to the current commit
git tag -a <tag_name> -m "<tag_message>"

# example
git tag -a 1.0.0 -m "version 1.0.0"

# create a tag to a specific commit
git tag -a <tag_name> <commit_id> -m "<tag_message>"

# example
git tag -a 0.1.5 e3ef9dc -m "version 0.1.5"
```


### Create a new branch of the branch you are currently on
```
git branch <branch_name>
```


### Rename the current branch
```
git branch -m <new_name>
```


### Delete a branch
```
# you need to move to another branch first
git branch --delete <branch_name>

# force delete un-merged branches
git branch -D <branch_name>

# delete a remote branch
git push origin --delete <remote_branch_name>
```


### Switch to a specific branch
```
git checkout <branch_name>
```


### List all branches
```
# list all local branches
git branch

# list all local and remote branches
git branch -a
```


### Merge the specified local branch to the local branch you are on right now
```
git merge <local_branch_name>
```


### Merge the specified remote branch to the local branch you are on right now
```
git merge <remote_name>/<remote_branch_name>
```


### Stage all new, modified and deleted files
```
git add -all
# or
git add -A
```


### Stage all new and modified files, without deleted ones
```
git add .
```


### Stage all modified and deleted files, without new ones
```
git add -u
```


### Add URL for the remote repository where your local repository will be pushed
```
git remote add origin <remote_repository_url>
```


### Show URL of the existing remote repository
```
git remote -v
```


### Change URL of the remote repository
```
git remote set-url origin <new_remote_repository_url>
```

Commit message:

Add a command that lists all existing tags

README.md, after:

# git-cheatsheet
A cheat sheet for common and repeatedly used commands in GIT version control system

### Adding an existing project to GitHub using the command line
See the complete guide here: [Adding an existing project to GitHub using the command line](https://help.github.com/articles/adding-an-existing-project-to-github-using-the-command-line/)


### Cloning a repository from GitHub using the command line
See the complete guide here: [Cloning a repository from GitHub using the command line](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository)


### Pull down all changes that have been made to a specific branch
```
git pull origin <branch_name>

# example
# first: move to your local branch "master"
git checkout master
# second: pull all changes from the "master" remote branch and merge it to the "master" local branch
git pull origin master
```


### Push local changes up to the remote repository
```
# push a specific branch
git push -u origin <branch_name>

# push all branches
git push -u origin --all
```


### Push local tags up to the remote repository
```
# push a specific tag
git push -u origin <tag_name>

# push all tags
git push -u origin --tags
```


### List all existing tags
```
git tag -n
```
The -n flag displays the first line of the annotation message along with the tag, or the first commit message line if the tag is not annotated.

### Create a tag
```
# create a tag to the current commit
git tag -a <tag_name> -m "<tag_message>"

# example
git tag -a 1.0.0 -m "version 1.0.0"

# create a tag to a specific commit
git tag -a <tag_name> <commit_id> -m "<tag_message>"

# example
git tag -a 0.1.5 e3ef9dc -m "version 0.1.5"
```


### Create a new branch of the branch you are currently on
```
git branch <branch_name>
```


### Rename the current branch
```
git branch -m <new_name>
```


### Delete a branch
```
# you need to move to another branch first
git branch --delete <branch_name>

# force delete un-merged branches
git branch -D <branch_name>

# delete a remote branch
git push origin --delete <remote_branch_name>
```


### Switch to a specific branch
```
git checkout <branch_name>
```


### List all branches
```
# list all local branches
git branch

# list all local and remote branches
git branch -a
```


### Merge the specified local branch to the local branch you are on right now
```
git merge <local_branch_name>
```


### Merge the specified remote branch to the local branch you are on right now
```
git merge <remote_name>/<remote_branch_name>
```


### Stage all new, modified and deleted files
```
git add -all
# or
git add -A
```


### Stage all new and modified files, without deleted ones
```
git add .
```


### Stage all modified and deleted files, without new ones
```
git add -u
```


### Add URL for the remote repository where your local repository will be pushed
```
git remote add origin <remote_repository_url>
```


### Show URL of the existing remote repository
```
git remote -v
```


### Change URL of the remote repository
```
git remote set-url origin <new_remote_repository_url>
```
