useful-bash-cli-commands.md, before:

# Useful Bash CLI Commands

<br>

### Open a file from within Bash CLI on Windows

```powershell
# If there is no spaces in the file name 
start <file_to_open>

# OR

# If there is a space or more in the file name
start "" "<file_to_open>"
```

Note that the file will be opened in the default program that is set to open these type of files. More info: [t.ly/zbebX](https://t.ly/zbebX) and [t.ly/eOYOD](https://t.ly/eOYOD).

<br>

### Copy one or more files or directories to another location

```shell
# If the destination file or directory doesn't exist, it will be automatically created
# More info: t.ly/0DL1X and t.ly/8q8A0
cp -R <source_file_or_directory> <destination_file_or_directory>
```

<br>

### Remove (Delete) one or more files or directories

```shell
# More info: t.ly/3ER8w
rm -rf <file_or_directory_to_delete>
```

<br>

### Rename a file or a directory

```shell
mv -T <source_file_or_directory> <destination_file_or_directory>
```

<br>

### Move a file or a directory into a specific directory

```shell
mv <source_file_or_directory> <destination_directory>
```

<br>

### Search for a file

```shell
# List filenames ending in ".mp3", searching in the current
# folder and all subfolders. To seach in the current folder
# only, use this flag with the command "-maxdepth 1"
find . -name "*.mp3" -maxdepth 1
```

<br>

### Empty a file without opening it (i.e. remove its content)

```shell
# Empty a file without opening it (i.e. remove its content). 
# More info: t.ly/RMwNb and t.ly/pv2p9 and t.ly/gwJE6
# Supposing the file you want to empty is file-name.log
> file-name.log
```

<br>

### Upload a file from your local machine to your remote server

```shell
scp <name_of_the_file> <username_of_your_hosting_account>@<hostname_or_ip_of_your_remote_server>:<the/path/on/the/remote/server/to/upload/the/file/to>

# Example:
# This will upload the file with the same name
scp file-name.zip amr@108.167.155.70:~/www/directory-name

# (OR) Use this command to upload the file with another name
scp file-name.zip amr@108.167.155.70:~/www/directory-name/another-file-name.zip
```

Note that the source could also be a remote server not your local machine. Also, you can download files from your remote sever to your local machine. [Check this](https://superuser.com/a/850743/398793) for more info about this.

<br>

### Zip and Unzip a file or a folder on you remote server

```shell
zip -r <file_name.zip> <source_file_or_folder>

# If "zip" app is not installed on your remote server, install it like this:
sudo apt-get install zip
```

```shell
unzip <file_name.zip> -d <destination_file_or_folder>

# (OR) If the source and destination files or directories are the same, you can simply do:
unzip <file_name.zip>

# If "unzip" app is not installed on your remote server, install it like this:
sudo apt-get install unzip
```

<br>

Commit message:

Add new command that opens a folder in Windows

useful-bash-cli-commands.md, after:

# Useful Bash CLI Commands

<br>

### Open (in Windows) a file from the Terminal

```powershell
# If there is no spaces in the file name 
start <file_to_open>

# (OR) If there is a space or more in the file name
start "" "<file_to_open>"
```

Note that the file will be opened in the default program that is set to open these type of files. More info: [t.ly/zbebX](https://t.ly/zbebX) and [t.ly/eOYOD](https://t.ly/eOYOD).

<br>

### Open (in Windows) a folder from the Terminal

```shell
# start <folder_to_open>

# (OR) If you're already inside the folder, use "." like this:
start .
```

<br>

### Copy one or more files or directories to another location

```shell
# If the destination file or directory doesn't exist, it will be automatically created
# More info: t.ly/0DL1X and t.ly/8q8A0
cp -R <source_file_or_directory> <destination_file_or_directory>
```

<br>

### Remove (Delete) one or more files or directories

```shell
# More info: t.ly/3ER8w
rm -rf <file_or_directory_to_delete>
```

<br>

### Rename a file or a directory

```shell
mv -T <source_file_or_directory> <destination_file_or_directory>
```

<br>

### Move a file or a directory into a specific directory

```shell
mv <source_file_or_directory> <destination_directory>
```

<br>

### Search for a file

```shell
# List filenames ending in ".mp3", searching in the current
# folder and all subfolders. To seach in the current folder
# only, use this flag with the command "-maxdepth 1"
find . -name "*.mp3" -maxdepth 1
```

<br>

### Empty a file without opening it (i.e. remove its content)

```shell
# Empty a file without opening it (i.e. remove its content). 
# More info: t.ly/RMwNb and t.ly/pv2p9 and t.ly/gwJE6
# Supposing the file you want to empty is file-name.log
> file-name.log
```

<br>

### Upload a file from your local machine to your remote server

```shell
scp <name_of_the_file> <username_of_your_hosting_account>@<hostname_or_ip_of_your_remote_server>:<the/path/on/the/remote/server/to/upload/the/file/to>

# Example:
# This will upload the file with the same name
scp file-name.zip amr@108.167.155.70:~/www/directory-name

# (OR) Use this command to upload the file with another name
scp file-name.zip amr@108.167.155.70:~/www/directory-name/another-file-name.zip
```

Note that the source could also be a remote server not your local machine. Also, you can download files from your remote sever to your local machine. [Check this](https://superuser.com/a/850743/398793) for more info about this.

<br>

### Zip and Unzip a file or a folder on you remote server

```shell
zip -r <file_name.zip> <source_file_or_folder>

# If "zip" app is not installed on your remote server, install it like this:
sudo apt-get install zip
```

```shell
unzip <file_name.zip> -d <destination_file_or_folder>

# (OR) If the source and destination files or directories are the same, you can simply do:
unzip <file_name.zip>

# If "unzip" app is not installed on your remote server, install it like this:
sudo apt-get install unzip
```

<br>
